# Statement of values

*This document is a work in progress. We welcome input on these values and expect that they will evolve throughout the production of the toolkit. Add feedback here or email dave@beautifultrouble.org*

**The Beautiful Rising team is committed to embodying the following values in every aspect of our work:**

#### People power and international solidarity 
In our work of articulating and sharing the strategies that make social movements more creative and more effective, we prioritize the participation, wisdom, and active leadership of those on the front lines of these struggles, particularly women, youth, indigenous peoples, people living in poverty, and those who face discrimination or marginalization on the basis of their political views, sexual orientation, gender identity, ethnicity, class, race, or religion. We support and stand in solidarity with popular movements in their efforts to affirm fundamental rights and exercise grassroots democratic power. Guided by this core understanding, we seek to model true international solidarity in every aspect of our work.

#### Anti-imperialism
We reject efforts by powerful states, transnational corporations, financial institutions, international NGOs, and other global and regional actors to suppress local and national autonomy in the global south through economic exploitation, tied aid, odious debt, or clandestine support for elite dissident groups. We recognize the persistence of unequal power relations generated by historical and structural violence. We not only commit to complete transparency in our funding sources and our aims, we also commit to working to unravel these power imbalences. 

#### On-the-ground ethics
We seek to share tools that will amplify the creativity and effectiveness of popular movements. Though our focus is on achieving social change through mass movement building and nonviolent direct action, we do not presume to dictate the range of acceptable responses to each situation. In all cases, we encourage a realistic assessment of the risks involved and rigorous planning to address those risks. 

#### Privacy-enhancing technologies
The tools that we use in our communication and collaboration with contributors will respect and enhance their privacy to the greatest extent possible. If we are required to use systems or networks that we believe to be inherently insecure, we commit to providing clear guidance to our collaborators on how to protect themselves, their identity, and their location while working with us.

#### Build with, not for
We are committed to ensuring that the Beautiful Rising toolkit is not just accessible to, but is built in active collaboration with, frontline activists working in a range of challenging circumstances. The toolkit should not just reflect these activists' experiences and accumulated wisdom, but should be useable in their local contexts, regardless of limitations of bandwidth, language, technology, and security. 

#### Open-source, creative commons
We will make use of, and contribute to, open-source software initiatives whenever possible. All materials will be published under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial ShareAlikke 4.0 International License.

#### Agile & responsive engagement
We are committed to providing open and safe mechanisms for contributors and readers to offer criticism and feedback as the project unfolds, and to adjusting and adapting both our process and the resulting toolkit in response to criticisms raised and lessons learned. 

#### Disclaimer
The Beautiful Rising team can assume no responsibility for the risks incurred, the victories achieved, the defeats suffered, nor any unintended consequences that may arise from use of the toolkit.


